hey today we're working on shoulders
back and chest muscles
as always we're starting with a good
warm-up oh
and you need a small towel some
dumbbells or a couple of your friends
hey just kidding and maybe a bottle of
water for today's workout
we start with push-back push-ups take
the regular push-up position
but spread your legs a little wider your
abs
pecs triceps and deltoids would be
engaged
now slowly lift down but instead of
climbing up
push your body back toward the ankles
it's a great exercise to build
pushing strength and it also activates
your core
the key to doing this exercise is speed
go down
and push back very slowly do this
exercise for 45 seconds
then you'll have 15 seconds to rest so
by the way
the world record for push-ups in 24
hours is 46 thousand
and one can you beat that i sure can't
i'm not even gonna drop
hey you're gonna have to gain a lot of
muscle mass to get wider
many will tell you that you need to
follow a strict diet and give up
pizza and coke but what if i told you
it's not necessary at all
stay until the end and we will figure
out how to gain muscle mass
without limiting your diet
next exercise pike push-ups assume the
downward facing dog position
your shoulders should be right above
your hands now
start push-ups be sure your elbows bend
toward your sides
this way this exercise will be as
effective as possible physical activity
boosts the level of happiness hormones
called endorphins so you'll be happier
and more productive
it also increases the production of
cells that are responsible for memory
and learning
and speaking of your head be very
careful get down to the level where you
can gently touch the forehead to the
floor
you don't need bruises on your face
[Music]
this exercise is called superman so
imagine flying around town and saving
people right now
lie face down on the floor pull out your
hands forward
in the shape of the letter y squeeze
your glutes and lower back muscles
and start to raise your hands to a level
above your chest
then slowly lower them down to their
original position
and be sure not to get tangled up in
your cape
now let's get to the high plank position
hands on shoulder width
lower your left arm onto your elbow then
do the same with your right arm
now you should be in the bar position on
your elbows
next place your left palm on the floor
and push
upwards repeat the same thing with your
right hand
now lie face down again reach out your
arms in front of you and raise your legs
a little upwards
feel how tense your back muscles are now
move your arms around
making the widest possible circle then
go back to your original position
for the next exercise take a light
dumbbell if you don't have one
a bottle of water will do perfectly get
into a high plank position
but spread your legs wider you'll need
to control the balance
now take the bottle with the right hand
and raise it sideways to your body level
hold your hand in this position for a
few seconds it's hard
but it's effective control the speed
take your time if you're a beginner
don't use a heavy dumbbell or a bottle
of water
do this exercise without weight in a
week you'll feel much more confident
and you can try to experiment with
weights now
go back to the original position take
the bottle with your left hand
and repeat the exercise
return to the plank position on your
hands first place them under your
shoulders
and then lean forward as far as possible
feel the tension in your muscles stop
when you reach the limit
you should keep this position for 45
seconds oh by the way the world record
in the plank position
is over eight hours it's like flying
from new york to amsterdam
only there's no plane and you're stuck
on the floor
for the next one take a small towel lie
down on the floor
stretch your arms forward take the towel
so that your hands are a little wider
than your shoulders
now stretch the towel as much as you can
for better efficiency
you can lift your legs up a little this
will work on your abs and back muscles
now that your hands are tense move the
towel to your chest
then go back to your original position
lie down on your back spread your legs
to the width of your shoulders
and put your hands to the sides with
your palms
up now move your elbows to each other
making your upper body rise
and straining your back muscles place
the towel under your elbows for more
comfort
congratulations that's it for today now
you can really praise yourself
hey good job just a few more general
tips for the
end discipline is the key to successful
training
it doesn't mean you have to practice
every day at the same time
three or four times a week will be
enough to get the body shape you want
now as i promised let's talk about
muscle mass
first we need to figure out how the
muscles work during training
when you exercise you damage the muscle
tissue a little
don't be scared that's the purpose of
the exercise your body feels it and it
starts to repair itself
it binds new and old protein fibers
together
and that's how the muscles get stronger
and bigger but for them to grow
you need to maintain a certain level of
protein it has to be higher than the
rate of its breakdown in the muscles
so at this point you need to follow a
certain diet
simply put consume more protein and it
will turn into muscle mass
if you work out of course but there is a
limit to the amount of muscle mass you
can build up
it's a genetic limit so after a while
you'll just start getting
fat not gaining muscle mass
the thing is a person doesn't really
need that much protein
the daily recommended amount for men is
55 and a half grams
and 45 grams for women and now i'm going
to prove to you that you don't have to
give up tasty food to meet that standard
for example let's take an average
breakfast eggs toast and
let's be honest a piece of bacon one
medium-sized egg contains about six
grams of protein
you'll eat about 13 grams more with
toast and
a piece of bacon will give you an
incredible 37 grams of protein
add to that lunch dinner and a light
snack in the middle of the day
and you'll see that you're already
consuming enough protein to turn it into
muscle mass
now we see that sports protein nutrition
is not necessary at
all if you want to get your body in
shape but you still have to maintain
some balance
if you exceed the norm of 55 and a half
grams for a man
twice it'll be harmful to your health
besides
you're not going to start getting fat
you want to be wide with muscles not fat
right
many gym goers that eat mountains of
protein with meat
claim that vegetarian food will not
allow you to gain the desired muscle
mass
that's also not true tofu beans
soy milk and other vegan foods contain
enough protein to turn it into mussels
so it's best to stick to the normal diet
that you're used to
only if you don't eat just pizza of
course use starchy carbohydrates
you can find them in potatoes rice pasta
and bread and
other products those things should
account for about a third of your total
diet
just try to add one of the products to
each meal don't forget about fruits and
vegetables
they can be fresh frozen or even canned
80 grams of fruit or vegetables with
each meal
will give you the right amount of fiber
but more importantly
they contain vitamins this exercise
program is designed for
28 days and is perfect for beginners
when you become more confident start
experimenting
and make the exercises more complex add
extra weight to your push-ups
increase speed or time for each exercise
you will
start to notice the effect of training
in a week